[DOC] Modify quickstart according to issue#653 (#667)
nipoppy/nipoppy: docs/source/overview/quickstart.md

# Quickstart

This page is intended to give you a quick first run through the most important Nipoppy commands using real data from an example dataset.

```{important}
See the [Installation instructions](#installation) first if you have not yet installed Nipoppy and do not forget to activate your Nipoppy environment.
```

## Download the example dataset

```{code-block} console

> $ git clone git@github.com:nipoppy/tutorial-dataset.git

Author: ```suggestion
$ git clone https://github.com/nipoppy/tutorial-dataset.git
```

```

## Initializing a new dataset

**1.** Initialize a Nipoppy dataset:
```{code-block} console

> $ nipoppy init --dataset my-example-dataset

Author: ```suggestion
$ nipoppy init --dataset my-example-study
```

```

```{important}
The newly created directory tree follows the Nipoppy specification. Other Nipoppy commands expect all these directories to exist -- they will throw an error if that is not the case.
```

**2.** Move the example dataset and files into your Nipoppy dataset:
```{code-block} console
$ mv tutorial-dataset/reorg/* my-example-study/sourcedata/imaging/pre_reorg
$ mv tutorial-dataset/bidsify/dcm2bids_config.json my-example-study/code
$ mv -t my-example-study/bids tutorial-dataset/bidsify/participants.tsv tutorial-dataset/bidsify/dataset_description.json
```

**3.** Change directory into your Nipoppy dataset:
```{code-block} console

> $ cd my-example-dataset

Author: ```suggestion
$ cd my-example-study
```

```

## Creating/modifying required files

(customizing-config)=
### Customizing the global configuration file

The global configuration file at {{fpath_config}} starts out like this:
```{literalinclude} ../../../nipoppy/data/examples/sample_global_config.json
---
linenos: True
language: json
---
```

**Fields that may need to be modified depending on your setup:**
- If you are on a system that uses Singularity instead of Apptainer, you need to change `CONTAINER_CONFIG` -> `COMMAND` to `"singularity"` instead of `"apptainer"`
- If your group uses a shared directory for storing container image files, you can replace `"[[NIPOPPY_DPATH_ROOT]]/containers"` by the full path to that shared directory. Alternatively, you can create a symlink from {{dpath_containers}} to that directory (then this line in the configuration can be deleted).

### [Customizing the manifest.tsv file](../how_to_guides/manifest/index.md)

The manifest file at {{fpath_manifest}} looks like this:
```{literalinclude} ../../../nipoppy/data/examples/sample_manifest.tsv
---
linenos: True
---
```

> **For the example dataset, we manually change it to this:**

Author: ```suggestion
**For our example study, we manually change it to this:**
```

```yaml
{
    # ...
    "PIPELINE_VARIABLES": {
        "BIDSIFICATION": {
            "dcm2bids": {
                "3.1.0": {
                    "DCM2BIDS_CONFIG_FILE": "[[NIPOPPY_DPATH_ROOT]]/code/dcm2bids_config.json"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    # ...
}
```

**2.** Run bidsification:
```{code-block} console
$ nipoppy bidsify --pipeline dcm2bids --pipeline-step convert
```

**3.** Track the curation status:
```{code-block} console
$ nipoppy track-curation
```

The curation status file can be found at {{fpath_curation_status}}.

**4.** Check the dataset status:
```{code-block} console
$ nipoppy status
```

Expected output:
```
...
               Participant counts by session at each Nipoppy checkpoint
                      ╷             ╷              ╷               ╷
           session_id │ in_manifest │ in_pre_reorg │ in_post_reorg │ in_bids
          ════════════╪═════════════╪══════════════╪═══════════════╪═════════
               BL     │      4      │      4       │       4       │    4
                      ╵             ╵              ╵               ╵

> INFO     ========== END STATUS WORKFLOW ==========

Author: remove INFO

> INFO     ========== END STATUS WORKFLOW ==========

Author: ```suggestion

```

```

Expected output:
```
...

INFO     Available bidsification pipelines and versions:
INFO            - dcm2bids(3.2.0)
INFO     Available processing pipelines and versions:
INFO            - mriqc(23.1.0)

...
```
**3.** Create a new directory in the dataset root called templateflow:
```{code-block} console
$ mkdir templateflow
```

**4.** Replace the placeholders in the `global_config.json`:

```yaml
{
    # ...
    "PIPELINE_VARIABLES": {
        "BIDSIFICATION": {
            "dcm2bids": {
                "3.1.0": {
                    "DCM2BIDS_CONFIG_FILE": "[[NIPOPPY_DPATH_ROOT]]/code"
                }
            }
        },
        "PROCESSING": {
            "mriqc": {
                "23.1.0": {
                    "TEMPLATEFLOW_HOME": "[[NIPOPPY_DPATH_ROOT]]/templateflow"
                }
            }
        },
        "EXTRACTION": {}
    }
    # ...
}
```

```{note}
You can also point to an already existing shared templateflow directory, if you have access to one.
```

**5.** Run MRIQC on one participant:
```{code-block} console
$ nipoppy process --pipeline mriqc --participant-id ED01
```

**6.** Track the processing status:
```{code-block} console

> $ nipoppy track-process --pipeline mriqc

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
$ nipoppy track-processing --pipeline mriqc
```

```

The processing status file can be found at {{fpath_processing_status}}.

**7.** Check the dataset status:
```{code-block} console
$ nipoppy status
```

Expected output:
```
...
                           Participant counts by session at each Nipoppy checkpoint
                      ╷             ╷              ╷               ╷         ╷
                      │             │              │               │         │  mriqc
                      │             │              │               │         │  23.1.0
           session_id │ in_manifest │ in_pre_reorg │ in_post_reorg │ in_bids │ default
          ════════════╪═════════════╪══════════════╪═══════════════╪═════════╪══════════
               BL     │      4      │      4       │       4       │    4    │    1
                      ╵             ╵              ╵               ╵         ╵

> INFO     ========== END STATUS WORKFLOW ==========

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
